- [Instructor] Operational needs are critical
to maintaining system health
as well as responding to incidents when they occur.
Each application needs to provide details of its up status
as well as other metrics details,
and this is where Actuator comes into the picture.
We need to start with understanding what Actuator is
and what uses of it are.
Actuator itself provides insights
into your running applications.
It provides configuration settings
usually exposed through JMX for Java applications.
But they can also be exposed through the web.
Actuator allows you to monitor your running application
which in production is extremely important,
especially in dealing with a microservices architecture
where you have multiple components
that could be running at once.
Now, one of the main endpoints that you get with Actuator
is the health endpoint.
It's a simple up/down status of the application itself.
It also could have an up/down status
of individual dependencies that the application relies on.
It's important to note
that the application's overall health status is only up
if all of the dependencies themselves are also up.
And this is a really great endpoint
especially in a Kubernetes world
where you're dealing with liveness and readiness checks.
Now there are several other endpoints within Actuator
that you get by just enabling it.
There's a beans endpoint
that gives you detailed information
about all of the beans within your Spring application.
There's an environment endpoint
that gives you all of the current environment variables
for your application.
There's an info endpoint
that allows you to put things like a git hash
or a common text into a value such that you can see it
from this endpoint on the web.
And of course metrics, and you can expose metrics
in multiple ways through either JMX or the web
including detailed lists of those metrics.
Now there's a lot of other ones
and we're going to play with some of these
and see what is there in the next video.
Now there's a few other things to consider with Actuator
and those rely around security as well as customization.
First of all, by default,
Actuator is relatively locked down and that's a good thing.
Most of this information can be great
for a bad actor to have.
But it also can be good for your operations team
so you have the ability to turn them on as you will.
One thing you need to make sure
is that your Actuator endpoints are not publicly available.
You need to block the mature load balancer or your gateway
or your edge so that they can't be seen
by the outside world.
And really you should restrict them internally
by using things like Spring Security
so that only authorized people can connect.
It's important to also only configure
and turn on what you need.
You probably don't need the beans endpoint
or the heap dump endpoint
when you're running your application in production
unless you're troubleshooting issues.
And in those cases, you should only have certain people
who know that they're there.
Now, it is very customizable all the way down
to creating new endpoints.
And those end points can be customized
with whatever data you want to show
in your running application.